Please answer the below core-java Questions:

1.What is programing language?
A.
Programming is giving a set of instructions to a computer to execute.


2.What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for
developing Java applications and applets. It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE),
an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation
generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.


3.What is IDE?
A.
Independent development environment.


4.What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
Best Java IDE & Compilers ·  Eclipse , Kite , IntelliJ IDEA ,
 BlueJ , MyEclipse , Xcode , Apache NetBeans , jGRASP.



5.Explain the entire java life cycle.

According to sun, there is only 4 states in thread life cycle in java new,
runnable, non-runnable and terminated. There is no running state. But for
better understanding the threads, we are explaining it in the 5 states.
The life cycle of the thread in java is controlled by JVM.

6.what is class?
Java is an object-oriented programming language.
A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.


7.What is object?
Object is an instance of a class.

8.What is the entry point of an application?
An application entry point identifies a resource that is an access
point to an application. Application entry points are used to control
users' access to different versions of an application that is deployed on a platform.

9.Why main is static?
Java program's main method has to be declared static because keyword static
allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which
the main method is defined. ... Without having declared main method static ,
your program will successfully compile but won't execute and report error at run time.



10.Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Java. lang. Object class is the root or superclass of the class hierarchy,
which is present in java.


11.What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Path is used define where the system can find the executables(.exe) files
and classpath is used to specify the location .

12.What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
An abstract class allows us to create functionality that subclasses can
implement or override. An interface only allows to define functionality,
not implement it.


13.Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

14.what is Access Specifier?
Java Access Specifiers regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or
invoked by another method in another class or sub-class.


15.What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP is object oriented programming.
There are three main features of OOPS.
1) Encapsulation.
2) Inheritance.
3) Polymorphism.

16.What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package in Java is used to group related classes.
Java compiler imports java.lang package internally by default.

17.What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
The full form of API is Application Programming Interface. It is a document which gives
us the list of all the packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their fields and methods.

18.Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No Java doesn't support multiple inheritance.
The reason behind this is to prevent ambiguity.java compiler cannot decide, which display method
it should inherit. To prevent such situation, multiple inheritances is not allowed in java.

19.What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is a programming technique that allows developers to use the same method name
multiple times in the same class, but with different parameters. In this case, we say that the
method is overloaded.
20.Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
The classic definition of an exception is an event that occurs during the execution of a program
and that disrupts the normal flow of instructions. Exceptions are specialized events that indicate
something bad has happened in the application, and the application either needs to recover or exit.

21.What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
In the Java programming language, the keyword static indicates that the particular member belongs to a
type itself, rather than to an instance of that type.

22.What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
In Java, the final keyword can be used while declaring an entity. Using the final keyword means
that the value can't be modified in the future. This entity can be - but is not limited to - a variable,
a class or a method.


23.What is final, finally and finalize?
final is a reserved keyword in java.
What is a constructor ?
Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
What is JVM stand for ?
Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
What is JAR stand for ?
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
What is compile time and run time?
What is heap?
How java manage it's memory?
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
What is Singleton class?
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
when to use transient variable in java?
Difference between while and do..while loop?
What is Enum?
What is Iterator?
Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Why is String Immutable in Java?
What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









