Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?

A.Data structures provide a means to manage large amounts of data efficiently for uses
such as large databases and internet indexing services. Usually, efficient data structures
are key to designing efficient algorithms.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.Basic Operatios on Data Structures:
Insertion − Add a new data item in the data structure .
Deletion − Delete an existing data item from the data structure.
Traversal − Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
Searching − Find out the location of the data item if it exists in the data structure
Sorting − Arranging the data items in some order.


List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.In these situations, an alternative like the iterative method is the best fit.
The implementation of recursion uses a lot of stack space, which can often result
in redundancy. Every time we use recursion, we call a method that results in the
creation of a new instance of that method.

what is an Array?
A.An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed length data structure whereas ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.

what is LinkedList?
Linked List is a part of the Collection framework present in java. util package. This class is
an implementation of the LinkedList data structure which is a linear data structure where the
elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element is a separate object with a data
part and address part.

How is an Array different from Linked List?

An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection
of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

what is queue?
Java Queue is an interface available in java. util package and extends java.

what is stack?
what is FIFO and LIFO?
what is the order of complexity?
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
what is tree in data structure?
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


